"Prospectus This is a Prospectus & Sales Literature which meets the regulatory requirements specified in the IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders' Interests) Regulations 2017 or as amended from time to time and is also compliant with Rule 11 of the Insurance Rule 1939. The Eligibility Criteria & Key Benefits shown in this Prospectus & Sales Literature form part of the coverage provided under the Policy which is in addition to the specific conditions towards Floater/Co-payment/Optional Cover. Any Claim paid under Benefit 1, Benefit 4 to Benefit 6 or Benefit 8 shall reduce the Sum Insured for that Policy Year and only the balance Sum Insured after payment of the Claim amounts admitted shall be available for all future Claims arising in that Policy Year. Co-payment is applicable on all the Benefits / Optional Covers except Benefit 2, Benefit 3, Benefit 5, Benefit 7, Benefit 9, Optional Cover 2 & Optional Cover 3. Deductible is applicable on all the Benefits except Benefit 7 & Benefit 9. Eligibility Criteria Entry Age Minimum Care Freedom Plan - 1 Adult 18 years Child 90 Days Entry Age - Minimum Care Freedom Plan - 2 Individual 46 years Floater Eldest Insured Person : 46 years Other Adult : 18 years Child 90 Days Entry Age - Maximum Adult Lifelong Child 24 years Exit Age Lifelong Age of Proposer 18 Years or above How can You cover Yourself Individual basis (maximum up to 6 Persons having equal Sum Insured) or Floater basis Floater combinations 2 Adults / 2 Adults + 1 Child / 2 Adults + 2 Children / 2 Adults + 3 Children / 2 Adults + 4 Children / 1 Adult + 1 Child / 1 Adult + 2 Children / 1 Adult + 3 Children / 1 Adult + 4 Children Who are covered Individual Self, Legally married spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, parents, parents-in-law, grandson, granddaughter, nephew, niece, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Employee Family Floater Self, Legally married Spouse, Children, Parents, Employee and his/her dependents (Legally married Spouse, Children & Parents) Note: Child would be ported to an individual policy (having separate Sum Insured) and treated as adult upon attaining age of 25 at the time of renewal. Key Benefits 1. Benefit 1: Hospitalization Expenses (i) In-patient Care We indemnify for the Medical Expenses necessarily incurred incase Hospitalization is for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours. We will indemnify for the medical expenses incurred during Hospitalization like room charges, nursing expenses and Intensive Care Unit charges, surgeon's fee, doctor's fee, anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theater charges, etc. Please refer to the Schedule of Benefits for limits/ sub- limits. (ii) Day Care Treatment We indemnify for the Medical Expenses if the Insured Person undergo a Day Care Treatment as specified in Annexure - I at a Hospital or a Day Care Centre that requires Hospitalization for less than 24 hours. 2. Benefit 2: Consumable Allowance We will pay a specified amount per day for each day of Hospitalization for the Insured Person admitted to a Hospital for treatment of any Injury or Illness during the Period of Insurance, for a period of maximum up to 7 consecutive days per Any One Illness or Accident, as long as it involves medical treatment for a period exceeding 3 consecutive days and had actually merited Hospitalization. We will not make any payment under this Benefit in respect of the first 3 consecutive days of Hospitalization. CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 I 3. Benefit 3: Companion Benefit We will pay a lump sum amount if the Insured Person is admitted to a Hospital for treatment of any One Illness or Injury arising from an Accident during the Policy Period once the Hospitalization exceeds 10 consecutive days. We shall not be liable to make payment under this Benefit more than once in a Policy Year. 4. Benefit 4: Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses & Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses We will indemnify You for: (i) The Medical Expenses incurred by You immediately before Insured Person's Hospitalization valid from the Policy Start Date; and (ii) The Medical Expenses incurred by You immediately after Insured Person's discharge from Hospital valid till 30 days beyond the Policy End Date. Provided that the Medical Expenses relate to the Illness/Injury for which We have accepted the Insured Person's Claim. 5. Benefit 5: Ambulance Cover We will indemnify You for expenses incurred on an ambulance service offered by the Hospital or any Ambulance service provider, in an Emergency situation. 6. Benefit 6: Domiciliary Hospitalization Despite suffering from an Illness /Injury (which would normally require care and treatment at a Hospital), Hospitalization may not be possible perhaps Your state of health is such that You are in no condition to be moved to a Hospital, or a room may not be available. Under Our Domiciliary Hospitalization Benefit, We will indemnify for the Medical Expenses incurred by You during Your treatment at home, as long as it involves medical treatment for a period exceeding 3 consecutive days and had actually merited Hospitalization. Any Medical Expenses incurred under Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses shall not be payable in respect of a claim made under this Benefit. Any Medical Expenses incurred for the treatment in relation to any of the following diseases shall not be payable under this Benefit: I. Asthma; ii. Bronchitis; iii. Chronic Nephritis and Chronic Nephritic Syndrome; iv. Diarrhoea and all types of Dysenteries including Gastro-enteritis; V. Diabetes Mellitus and Insipidus; vi. Epilepsy; vii. Hypertension; viii. Influenza, cough or cold; ix. All Psychiatric or Psychosomatic Disorders; X. Pyrexia of unknown origin; xi. Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract Infection including Laryngitis and Pharyngitis; xii. Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism. 7. Benefit 7: Recharge of Sum Insured If, due to claims made, You ever run out of/exhaust Your Sum Insured, We will reinstate the entire Sum Insured once in the Policy Year. This re- instated amount can be used for future claims, not related to the Illness/Injury for which the claim has been made during the same year. For any single claim during a Policy Year the maximum claim amount payable shall be the Sum Insured. During a Policy Period, the aggregate claim amount payable, subject to admissibility of the claim, shall not exceed the sum of: Sum Insured; Recharge of Sum Insured; Any unutilized Recharge of Sum Insured cannot be carried forward to any subsequent Policy Period. This Benefit is not applicable to Optional Covers. 8. Benefit 8: Dialysis Cover We will indemnify You Rs. 1,000 per sitting payable up to 24 consecutive months for the dialysis expenses incurred by You. We will not make any payment under this benefit with respect to kidney disease which occurred and was diagnosed as a Chronic Condition prior to the Policy Start Date. 9. Benefit 9: Annual Health Check-up We provide an annual health check-up for all Insured Persons above the Age of 18 except those Insured Persons who are covered under the Policy as a child at Our Network Provider or any other Service Providers empanelled with the Company to provide the services, in India. This Benefit shall be available only once during a Policy Year per Member. You can avail the following set of tests:- CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 2 Medical Tests Complete Blood Count with ESR Urine Routine Blood Group Fasting Blood Sugar Lipid Profile Kidney Function Test ECG Special Conditions 1. Floater Cover Under the Floater plan, You can cover any member of Your immediate family (Yourself or spouse, parents and children) and employee and his / her ependents (Legally married Spouse, Children & Parents) for the Sum Insured under a single policy. 2. Co-payment i. You will bear a Co-payment of 20% / 30% per claim of final amount payable by Us and Our liability shall be restricted to the balance amount, subject to the availability of the Sum Insured. ii. The applicable Co-payment will increase by 10% per Claim in the Policy Year following the Insured Person (or eldest Insured Person in the case of a Floater cover) attaining Age 71. If an Insured Person (or eldest Insured Person in the case of a Floater cover) attains age 71 years during the Policy Period, additional 10% co-payment will be applicable to the Policy only at the time of subsequent renewal. iii. However, if Your age or eldest Insured Person (in case of Floater) at the time of issue of the first Policy with the Company is 70 years or below, then you may opt for the waiver of the aforesaid additional 10% Co-payment condition upon payment of extra premium. iv. If You opt for the waiver of the aforesaid additional 10% Co-payment condition, there will be a Co-payment loading applicable at the rate of 7.5% on the premium payable. V. The Co-payment shall be applicable to each and every Claim made, for each Insured Person. Optional Cover Following Optional covers can be opted either at the inception of the policy or at the time of renewal:- 1. Optional cover 1: Good Health+ We understand that healthcare needs are not only limited to Hospitalization. Regular doctor consultations are as important for ensuring sustained good health as for immediate cure of routine illnesses. We value this need and if the option is chosen by You We provide up to 8 consultations with Our Network Service Providers up to a limit with a Co-payment as per the base plan. You shall be able to avail discounts at the pharmacies of the Network Service Providers and wellness centers of the Network Service Providers empanelled with Us. For an updated list of the Network Service Provider and wellness centres empanelled with the Company and the discounts available, please visit our website. Network Service Provider means any person, organization, institution that has been empanelled with the Company to provide Services specified under this Optional Cover to the Insured Person. 2. Optional cover 2: Home Care We will indemnify for the expenses incurred towards hiring a Qualified Nurse with the purpose of providing care and convenience to the Insured Person to perform his daily activities, which facilitate his activities of daily living and are recommended by a Medical Practitioner in writing, provided that We will not indemnify for the expenses incurred for more than 7 consecutive days arising from Any One Illness or an Injury and for the first day of hiring the Qualified Nurse subject to a maximum of 45 days in a Policy Year per Insured Person. 3. Optional cover 3: Health Check+ We provide You an option to get Your Benefit - Annual Health Check - up upgraded to either Diabetes Health Check - up or Cardiac Health Check - up. You can avail the following set of tests under the upgraded annual health check-up:- CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 Diabetes Health Check - up Cardiac Health Check - up Complete Blood Count with ESR Complete Blood Count with ESR Urine RE Urine RE Blood Group Blood Group Fasting & PP Blood Sugar Fasting & PP Blood Sugar TMT TMT Lipid Profile Lipid Profile Kidney Function test Kidney Function test Liver Function test Liver Function test TSH TSH Medical Examination Report Medical Examination Report HbA1 C Hbs Ag Urine for Micro Albuminuria Chest X Ray Hbs Ag Salient Features 1. Policy Term The Policy term can be one, two or three years. 2. Deductible Deductible is the claim amount which is to be borne by You under this Policy. Deductible would apply on an aggregate basis in a Policy Year. We shall be liable only once the aggregate amount of all the claims exceed the Deductible. Illustration for applicability of Deductible Sr. # Sum Insured Deductible Claim 1 Claim 2 Claim 3 Payable 1 Payable 2 Payable 3 1 500,000 200,000 75,000 125,000 100,000 - - 100,000 2 500,000 200,000 75,000 250,000 300,000 - 125,000 300,000 3 500,000 200,000 250,000 400,000 400,000 50,000 400,000 50,000 3. Underwriting Loading (Applicable to Care Freedom Plan - 2 only) Based on the Underwriter's assessment of the extra risk on account of medical conditions of the proposed to be insured, the premium (at the time of issuance of the policy and subsequent renewals) may get loaded. Such extra premium shall be communicated to the Policyholder for their consent before issuance of the Policy. Loading will not exceed 100% of Premium. Criteria for such loading are objectively mentioned in the Underwriting Manual. In case the Policyholder requires further clarification pertaining to Underwriting Loading, he/she may contact Company's call center or visit any branch of the Company. 4. Tax Benefit You can avail tax benefit on the premium You pay towards your health insurance, under Section 80D of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as applicable. (Tax benefits are subject to changes in the tax laws, please consult Your tax advisor for more details). 5. Cashless Facility With Cashless Facility, You no longer need to run around paying off hospital bills and then follow up for a reimbursement. All You now need to do is get admitted to any of Our Network Providers and concentrate only on Your recovery. Leave the bill payment arrangements to Us, except for any non- medical expenses as specified in Annexure - II that You incur at the Hospital. 6. Free Look Period The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy. The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days (30 days in case of distance marketing) from date of receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to (i) A refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 4 (ii) Where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or (iii) Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period; 7. Premium The premium charged under the Policy depends upon the Plan opted, Sum Insured, Co-payment, Deductible chosen, Age, cover type (individual floater), number of members in the Policy, Policy Term, optional cover(s) opted and the health status of the individual. For premium calculation of floater policies, age of eldest member would be considered. The premium rates for the plans offered are annexed hereto with the prospectus. 8. Cancellation Termination (i) The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days'written notice and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below Refund % to be applied on premium received Cancellation date from Policy Tenure Policy Tenure Policy Tenure Policy Period Start Date 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year Upto 1 month 75.0% 87.0% 91.0% 1 month to 3 months 50.0% 74.0% 82.0% 3 months to 6 months 25.0% 61.5% 73.5% 6 months to 12 months 0.0% 48.5% 64.5% 12 months to 15 months N.A. 24.5% 47.0% 15 months to 18 months N.A. 12.0% 38.5% 18 months to 24 months N.A. 0.0% 30.0% 24 months to 30 months N.A. N.A. 8.0% Beyond 30 months N.A. N.A. 0.0% (ii) Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the Insured person under the Policy. (iii) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of mis-representations, non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of mis-representations, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. Notes: In case of Your demise, (i) Where the Policy covers only the Policyholder, this Policy shall stand null and void from the date and time of demise of the Policyholder. The premium would be refunded (exclusive of taxes) for the unexpired period of this Policy at the short period scales subject to no claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed by the Insured person under the Policy. (ii) Where the Policy covers other Insured Persons, this Policy shall continue till the end of Policy Period for the other Insured Persons. If the other Insured Persons wish to continue with the same Policy, the Company will renew the Policy subject to the appointment of a policyholder provided that: a. Written notice in this regard is given to the Company before the Policy Period End Date; and b. A person over Age 18 who satisfies the Company's criteria applies to become the Policyholder.. 9. Multiple Policies i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured during a period from the same or one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. ii. Insured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy/ policies, even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall have the right to choose insurers from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. iv. Where an insured has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, the insured shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 5 10. Portability & Migration Portability: The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability. For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link: https://www.careinsurance.com/other-disclosures.htn Migration: The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy atleast 30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, the insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link: https://www.careinsurance.com/other-disclosures.htm 11. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days the company shall be liable to pay interest at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim. Bank rate shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due 12. Withdrawal of Policy i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period, as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 13. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates The Company, with prior approval of IRDA, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are affected. Grievance Redressal In case of any grievance the Insured Person may contact the Company through Website/link: https://www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html Mobile App: Care Health - Customer App Tollfree (Whats App Number): 8860402452 Courier: Any of Company's Branch Office or Corporate Office Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company's branches with the details of grievance. If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, Insured Person may contact the grievance officer at Branch Office or Corporate Office. For updated details of grievance officer, Kindly refer the link https://www.careinsurance.com/customer-grievance-redressal.htm) If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the insured person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI integrated Grievance Management System - https://bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in/ Note: The Contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices have been provided as Annexure V. Claims Management We directly process the claims and they are managed in-house. No Third Party Administrator is used for claim management. We take pride in offering hassle-free clearance and speedy settlements. CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 6 Claim Intimation: (i) Kindly notify Us in case of occurrence of any event that maygiverisetoclaimwithfullparticulars within48hours from the date of occurrence of event either at our call center or in writing. (ii) Claim must be filed within 15 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital. Note: The above points ((I) & (ii)) are precedent to admission of liability under the policy. (iii) In case of an Emergency Hospitalization, We shall be notified either at the Our call center or in writing immediately and in any event within 48 hours of Hospitalization commencing or before the Insured Person's discharge from Hospital. However, we will examine & relax the time limit mentioned in the above conditions depending upon the merits of case. Claim Process (i) Any claim under this Policy shall be settled either on cashless or on reimbursement basis as per the Benefit. (ii) Please send the duly signed claim form and all the information/documents mentioned therein to Us. (iii) Please refer to claim form for complete documentation. (iv) If there is any deficiency in the documents/information submitted by You, We will process the claim and communicate the decision to You. (v) On receipt of the complete set of claim documents, We will send the cheque for the admissible amount, along with a settlement statement in Your name. Cashless The Cashless Facility is available only at Our Network Providers. All You have to do is present the CHI Health Card along with a valid photo identification document at Our nation-wide network of leading hospitals and avail of the cashless service. The updated list of Our Network Providers is available on our website www.careinsurance.com or call at our call centre. You need to request for the cashless facility in a prescribed format. Re-imbursement In case of reimbursement of expenses when You use a non-network hospital, all You need to do is notify Us at least 48 hours before Hospitalization in case of a planned hospitalization or within 24 hours in case of an emergency about the claim. Call Us directly, send Us the documents specified below and We will process Your claim. List of Documents to be submitted for reimbursement claims (i) Duly completed and signed claim form, in original; (ii) Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising Hospitalization; (iii) Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs diagnostic consultation; (iv) Original bills, receipts and discharge card from the Hospital/Medic Practitioner; (v) Original bills from pharmacy/chemists; (vi) Original pathological diagnostic test reports radiology reports and payment receipts; (vii) Indoor case papers; (viii) Original investigation test reports and payment receipts; (ix) Ambulance Receipt; (x) Any other document as required by us to assess the claim. The following details are to be provided to Us at the time of notification of claim: a) Policy Number; b) Name of the Policyholder; c) Name of the Insured Person in respect of whom the Claim is being made; d) Nature of Illness or Injury; e) Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and Hospital; f) Date of admission to Hospital or proposed date of admission to Hospital for planned Hospitalization; g) Any other information, documentation or details requested by Us. Claim Assessment All claims made under this Policy shall be assessed by Us in the following progressive order: (i) If the provisions of the Contribution Clause as mentioned above are applicable, Our liability to make payment under that claims shall first be apportioned accordingly. (ii) If a room accommodation has been opted for where the rent or category is higher than the eligible limit as applicable for You under the Policy, then, the Associate Medical Expenses payable shall be pro-rated as per the applicable limits. 'Associate Medical Expenses' means those Medical Expenses as listed below which vary in accordance with the Room Rent or Room Category in a Hospital: CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 7 I. Room, boarding, nursing and Operation theatre expenses as charged by the Hospital where the Insured Person availed medical treatment; II. Fees charged by surgeon, anesthetist, Medical Practitioner; Note: Associate Medical Expenses are not applied in respect of the hospitals which do not follow differential billing or for those expenses in respect of which differential billing is not adopted based on the room category. (iii) The Deductible shall be applied to the aggregate of all claims that are either paid or payable (and not excluded), under this Policy. Our liability to make payment shall commence only once the aggregate amount of all Claims payable or paid exceed the Deductible. (iv) Co-payment shall then be applicable on the amount payable by Us. (v) The balance amount, if any, subject to the applicability of sub-limits on expenses on treatment of Named Ailments / Procedures, our liability to make payment shall be limited to such extent as applicable and shall be the claim payable. The claim amount assessed above would be deducted from the following amounts in the following progressive order: (i) Sum Insured; (ii) Recharge of Sum Insured (if applicable). Duties of the Claimant It is agreed and understood that as a Condition Precedent for a claim to be considered under the Policy: (i) You shall check the updated list of Network Hospitals before submission of a pre-authorisation request for Cashless Facility (ii) All reasonable steps and measures must be taken to avoid or minimize the quantum of any claim that may be made under this Policy. (iii) You shall follow the directions, advice or guidance provided by a Medical Practitioner and We shall not be obliged to make payment that is brought about or contributed to by You failing to follow such directions, advice or guidance. (iv) Notification of Claim and submission or provision of all information and documentation shall be made promptly and in any event in accordance with the procedures and within the timeframes specified under Claims Management section. (v) You will, at Our request, submit Yourself for a medical examination by Our nominated Medical Practitioner as often as We consider reasonable and necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne by Us. (vi) Our Medical Practitioner and representatives shall be given access and co-operation to inspect Your medical and Hospitalization records and to investigate the facts and examine You. (vii) We shall be provided with complete documentation and information which We have requested to establish its liability for the claim, its circumstances and its quantum. Payment Terms (i) This Policy covers only medical treatment taken entirely within India. All payments under this Policy shall be made in Indian Rupees and within India. (ii) We shall have no liability to make payment of a claim under the Policy in respect of an Insured Person during the Policy Period, once the Sum of Sum Insured and Recharge of Sum Insured for that Insured Person is exhausted. (iii) We shall settle any claim within 30 days of receipt of all the necessary documents/information as required for settlement of such claim and sought by Us. We shall provide You an offer of settlement of claim and upon acceptance of such offer by You, We shall make payment within 7 days from the date of receipt of such acceptance. (iv) If You or Insured Person suffers a relapse within 45 days of the date of discharge from the Hospital for which a claim has been made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be part of the same claim. (v) If any claim is made which extends in to two Policy Periods then such Claim shall be paid taking into consideration the available Sum Insured in these Policy Periods including the deductible for each Policy Period. Such eligible Claim amount will be paid to You after deducting the extent of premium to be received for the renewal/due date of premium of the policy, if not received earlier. (vi) For cashless claims, the payment shall be made to the Network Provider whose discharge would be complete and final. (vii) For the Reimbursement Claims, We will pay You. In the event of Your death, We will pay the Nominee (as named in the Policy Certificate) and in case of no Nominee to Your legal heirs whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy. Exclusions 1. Medical Expenses incurred for treatment of any Illness during the first 30 days of Policy Period Start Date except those Medical Expenses incurred as a result of an Injury taking place within the Policy Period. This exclusion shall not apply for subsequent Policy Periods provided that there is no break in insurance cover for that Insured Person and that the Policy has been renewed with Us for that Insured Person on time and for the same or lower Sum Insured. 2. Wait period of 24 months for specified (i) Arthritis (if non-infective), Osteoarthritis and Osteoporosis, Gout, Rheumatism and Spinal Disorders, Joint Replacement Surgery; (ii) Surgical treatments for Benign ear, nose and throat (ENT) disorders and surgeries (including but not limited to Adenoidectomy, Mastoidectomy, Tonsillectomy and Tympanoplasty), Nasal Septum Deviation, Sinusitis and related disorders; (iii) Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy; (iv) Cataract; CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 8 (v) Dilatation and Curettage; (vi) Fissure/Fistula in anus, Hemorrhoids/Piles Pilonidal Sinus, Ulcers of Gastro Intestinal tract; (vii) Surgery of Genito urinary system unless necessitated by malignancy; (viii) All types of Hernia, Hydrocele; (ix) Hysterectomy for menorrhagia or fibromyoma or prolapse of uterus unless necessitated by malignancy; (x) Internal tumors, skin tumors, cysts, nodules, polyps including breast lumps (each of any kind) unless malignant; (xi) Kidney Stone/Ureteric Stone/Lithotripsy/GallBladderStone; (xii) Myomectomy for fibroids; (xiii) Varicose veins and varicose ulcers; (xiv) Pancreatitis; (xv) End stage liver disease; (xvi) Procedures for Retinal disorders; (xvii) Cerebrovascular accident; (xviii) Renal Failure/En Stage Renal Disease; (xix) Cardiomyopathies; (xx) Myocardial Infarction; (xxi) Heart Failure; (xxii) Arrhythmia/Heart blocks; (xxiii). All types of Cancer; If an Insured Person is suffering from any of the above Illnesses, conditions or Pre-Existing Diseases at the time of commencement of first policy with Us, any Claim in respect of that Illness, condition or Pre-existing Disease shall not be covered until the completion of 24 months of continuous insurance coverage with Us from the first Policy Period Start Date. 3. Pre-existing Disease Any claims for Medical Expenses incurred for diagnosis or treatment of any Pre-existing Disease shall not be admissible until the completion of 24 months of continuous coverage since the inception of the first Policy with Us. 4. Permanent Exclusions Any claim in respect of any Insured Person for, arising out of or directly or indirectly due to any of the following shall not be admissible unless expressly stated to the contrary elsewhere in this document: (i) Any condition or treatment as specified in Annexure - II. (ii) The Company shall not admit any Claim in respect of an Insured Person which involves treatment/consultation in any of the hospitals as listed in Annexure III. (iii) Any condition directly or indirectly caused by or associated with any sexually transmitted disease, including Genital Warts, Syphilis, Gonorrhoea, Genital Herpes, Chlamydia, Pubic Lice and Trichomoniasis, Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) whether or not arising out of HIV, Human T-Cell Lymphotropic Virus Type III (HTLV-III or IITLB-III) or Lymphadinopathy Associated Virus (LAV) or the mutants derivative or Variations Deficiency Syndrome or any Syndrome or condition of a similar kind. (iv) Any treatment arising from or traceable to pregnancy (including voluntary termination), miscarriage (unless due to an Accident), childbirth, maternity (including caesarian section), abortion or complications of any of these. This exclusion will not apply to ectopic pregnancy. (v) Any treatment arising from or traceable to any fertility, sterilization, birth control procedures, contraceptive supplies or services including complications arising due to supplying services or Assisted Reproductive Technology. (vi) Treatment taken from anyone who is not a Medical Practitioner or from a Medical Practitioner who is practicing outside the discipline for which he is licensed or any kind of self-medication. (vii) Charges incurred in connection with cost of routine eye and ear examinations, dentures, artificial teeth and all other similar external appliances and or devices whether for diagnosis or treatment. (viii) Unproven/Experimental or investigational treatments which are not consistent with or incidental to the diagnosis and treatment of the positive existence or presence of any Illness for which confinement is required at a Hospital. Any Illness or treatment which is a result or a consequence of undergoing such experimental or unproven treatment. (ix) Expenses incurred on High Intensity Focused Ultra Sound, Balloon Sinuplasty, Enhanced External Counter Pulsation Therapy and related therapies. Deep Brain Simulation, Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Robotic Surgery, Holmium Laser Enucleation of Prostate, KTP Laser surgeries, Femto laser surgeries and such other similar therapies. (x) Any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective devices, external durable medical equipment of any kind, like wheelchairs, walkers, belts, collars, caps, splints, braces, stockings of any kind, diabetic footwear, glucometer/thermometer, crutches, ambulatory devices, instruments used in treatment of sleep apnea syndrome (C.P.A.P) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (C.A.P.D.) and oxygen concentrator for asthmatic condition, cost of cochlear implants & related surgery. CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 9 (xi) Any treatment related to sleep disorder or sleep apnea syndrome, general debility convalescence, cure, rest cure, health hydros, nature cure clinics, sanatorium treatment, Rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, long-term nursing care, custodial care or any treatment in an establishment that is not a Hospital. (xii) Treatment of any external Congenital Anomaly, genetic disorders or illness or defects or anomalies or treatment relating to external birth defects. (xiii) Treatment of mental illness, stress or psychological disorders. (xiv) Aesthetic treatment, cosmetic surgery or plastic surgery or related treatment of any description, including any complication arising from these treatments, other than as may be necessitated due to an Injury, cancer or burns. (xv) Any treatment/surgery for change of sex or gender reassignments including any complication arising from these treatments. (xvi) Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an Illness or as may be necessitated due to an Accident. (xvii) All preventive care, vaccination, including inoculation and immunizations (except in case of post-bite treatment), vitamins and tonics. (xviii) Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine use, where such treatment will not result in recovery or restoration of the previous state of health. (xix) All expenses related to donor treatment, including surgery to remove organs from the donor, in case of transplant surgery. (xx) Non-allopathic treatment. (xxi) Any OPD Treatment. (xxii) Treatment received outside India. (xxiii) Charges incurred at Hospital primarily for diagnostic, X-ray or laboratory examinations not consistent with or incidental to the diagnosis and treatment of the positive existence or presence of any Illness or Injury, for which In-patient Care/Day Care Treatment is required. (xxiv) War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. (xxv) Any Illness or Injury directly or indirectly resulting or arising from or occurring during commission of any breach of any law by the Insured Person with any criminal intent. (xxvi) Act of self-destruction or self-inflicted Injury, attempted suicide or suicide while sane or insane or Illness or Injury attributable to consumption, use, misuse or abuse of tobacco, intoxicating drugs and alcohol or hallucinogens. (xxvii) Any charges incurred to procure any medical certificate, treatment or Illness related documents pertaining to any period of Hospitalization or Illness. (xxviii) Personal comfort and convenience items or services including but not limited to T.V. (wherever specifically charged separately), charges for access to telephone and telephone calls (wherever specifically charged separately), foodstuffs (except patient's diet), cosmetics, hygiene articles, body or baby care products and bath additive, barber or beauty service, guest service as well as similar incidental services and supplies. (xxix) Expenses related to any kind of RMO charges, service charge, surcharge, night charges levied by the hospital under whatever head. (xxx) Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense. For the purpose of this exclusion: I Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or waste or combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of fissile/fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. II Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. III Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any pathogenic (disease producing) micro- organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. In addition to the foregoing, any loss, claim or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly arising out of, contributed to, caused by, resulting from, or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing, minimizing or in any way relating to the above shall also be excluded. (xxxi) Impairment of an Insured Person's intellectual faculties by abuse of stimulants or depressants. (xxxii) Alopecia, wigs and/or toupee and all hair or hair fall treatment and products. (xxxiii) Any treatment taken in a clinic, rest home, convalescent home for the addicted, detoxification center, sanatorium, home for the aged, mentally disturbed, remodeling clinic or similar institutions. (xxxiv) Multifocal lens implantation for cataract. (xxxv) Remicade, Avastin & similar injectable treatment. (xxxvi) Oral Chemotherapy. (xxxvii) Any claim related to Hazardous Activities. (xxxviii) If the Insured Person is suffering from or has been diagnosed with or has been treated for any of the following disorders prior to the first Policy Start Date, then costs of treatment related to or arising from the disorder whether directly or indirectly will be permanently excluded from coverage under the Policy:- CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 10 I Chronic Bronchitis II Esophageal Stricture or stenosis III Unoperated Varicose Veins IV Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) V Spondyloarthropathies (Spondylosis/Spondylitis/Spondylolisthesis) VI Residual Poliomyelitis VII Avascular Necrosis, Idiopathic VIII Unoperated Hyperthyroidism IX Renal/Ureteric/BladderCalculi X DUB/Endometriosis XI Unoperated Fibroid Uterus XII Retinal Detachment XIII Otosclerosis XIV Deafness XV Blindness XVI Any implant in the body Pre-Policy Issuance Medical Check-up We may ask the Insured Person to undergo requisite pre-policy issuance Medical Check-up based on the plan, age, Deductible and the Sum Insured selected. The result of these tests shall be valid for a period of 3 months from the date of tests. Under Care Freedom Plan - 1 you do not have to undergo any Pre-Policy Medical Check-up. Under Care Freedom Plan - 2 you will be required to undergo Pre-Policy Medical Check-up with respect to the grid mentioned below. The cost of the medical tests would be borne by Us in case You opt for a 2 year or 3 year tenure and Your proposal is accepted. We shall bear 50% of the cost of medical tests in case You opt for a 1 year tenure and Your proposal is accepted. Also, wherever any Pre-Existing Disease or any other adverse medical history is declared for any member, We may ask such member to undergo tele-underwriting which may include specific tests (tests applicable only in case of Plan - 2), as We may deem fit to evaluate such member, irrespective of the member's age. We shall bear the cost of such medical tests if Your proposal is accepted. The test is to be taken as per the corresponding grid: Plan Care Freedom Plan 1 Care Freedom Plan 2 Sum Insured (Including the Across all sum Up to 4 Lac More than 4 Lac to 10 Lac Above 10 Lac Deductible) (in Rs.) / Age insured/deductible Up to 45 years No No No No 46 years to 60 years No Set 1 Set 2 Set 3 61 years and above No Set 2 Set 3 Set 3 The Pre-policy health check-up medical test grid is as under: Category Tests Set 1 MER, HbA1c, CBC with ESR, RUA, S Cholesterol, ECG, SGPT, S Creatinine Set 2 MER, HbA1c, CBC with ESR, RUA, Fasting Lipid Profile, TMT, SGPT, S Creatinine Set 3 MER, HbA1c, CBC with ESR, RUA, Fasting Lipid Profile, TMT / ECG+2-D Echo, LFT, S Creatinine, USG abdomen/pelvis(Female), PSA (Male) CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 The explanation of these tests is: Test Full Form MER Medical Examination Report RUA Routine & Microscopic Urine Analysis CBC Complete Blood Count ESR Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate HBA1C Glycosylated Hemoglobin S CHOLESTEROL Serum Cholesterol ECG Electro Cardio Gram SGPT Serum Glutamic Pyruvic Transaminase S CREATININE Serum Creatinine USG (Abdomen Pelvis) Ultrasonography TMT Treadmill Test 2 D Echo 2D Echocardiography LFT Liver Function Test PSA Prostate Specific Antigen Renewal of Policy The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured person. i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under obligation to give any notice for renewal. ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years. iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the end of the policy period. iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. Schedule of Discounts Sr. # Description Rates (in %) 1 Discount for Employees and their dependents of : 15 A. Corporation Bank and its subsidiaries / affiliates B. Union Bank of India and its subsidiaries / affiliates 2 Tenure Discount (on single premium) Tenure Discount 2 year rate = Annual Rate X 2 X (1 - Discount applicable) 2 Year 7.5 3 year rate = Annual Rate X 3 X (1 - Discount applicable) 3 Year 10 3 Family Discount - This discount shall be applicable if more No. of persons Discount than one persons of the same family are covered in 2 or 3 members 5 the same Policy, individually 4, 5 or 6 members 10 4 Deductible Discount - This discount shall be applicable Sum Insured Deductible Amount (in Rs.) with respect to the deductible opted. (in Rs.) 25 K 50 K 1 Lac 2 Lac 3 Lac 2 Lac 25.0 35.0 45.0 55.0 60.0 3 Lac 24.0 34.0 43.5 53.0 58.0 4 Lac 23.0 33.0 42.0 51.0 56.0 5 Lac 22.0 32.0 40.5 49.0 54.0 7 Lac 20.5 30.5 38.5 46.5 51.5 10 Lac 18.5 28.5 36.0 43.5 48.5 CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 12 Schedule of Benefits Plan Name Care Freedom - Plan 1 Sum Insured - on annual basis (in Rs.) 2L 3L 4L 5L Deductible - on annual basis (in Rs.) No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L 1L / 2L / 3L Hospitalization Expenses In-Patient Care Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Day Care Treatment Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Consumable Allowance Rs. 500 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 750 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 750 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 1000 per day; Max. 7 days per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered after 3 days after 3 days after 3 days after 3 days Companion Benefit Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 15,000 if Hospitalization exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses Up to 7.5% of payable Hospitalization Up to 7.5% of payable Hospitalization Up to 7.5% of payable Hospitalization Up to 10% of payable Hospitalization and Post-hospitalization Medical expenses valid till 30 days beyond expenses valid till 30 days beyond expenses valid till 30 days beyond expenses valid till 30 days beyond Expenses the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. Ambulance Cover Up to Rs 1,000 per Hospitalization Up to Rs 1,000 per Hospitalization Up to Rs 1,000 per Hospitalization Up to Rs 1,000 per Hospitalization Domiciliary Hospitalization Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured covered after 3 days covered after 3 days covered after 3 days covered after 3 days Recharge of Sum Insured N.A. 100% of original SI upon 100% of original SI upon 100% of original SI upon exhaustion of SI exhaustion of SI exhaustion of SI Dialysis Cover Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Limited Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Limited Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Limited Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Limited to 24 consecutive months to 24 consecutive months to 24 consecutive months to 24 consecutive months Annual Health Check-up Annually Annually Annually Annually CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 13 Wait Periods Initial Wait Period 30 Days 30 Days 30 Days 30 Days Named ailments 24 Months 24 Months 24 Months 24 Months Pre-existing Diseases 24 Months 24 Months 24 Months 24 Months Sub-limits Room Rent / Room Category Twin Sharing Room subject to a Twin Sharing Room subject to a Twin Sharing Room subject to a Twin Sharing Room maximum of 1% of SI per day maximum of 1% of SI per day maximum of 1% of SI per day ICU Charges Up to 2% of SI per day Up to 2% of SI per day Up to 2% of SI per day No limit Co-payment 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim Above 70 years of age: increase in Above 70 years of age: increase Above 70 years of age: increase inAbove 70 years of age: increase in co-payment by 10% per claim in co-payment by 10% per claim co-payment by 10% per claim co-payment by 10% per claim (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory for first time entrants) for first time entrants) for first time entrants) for first time entrants) Treatment of Cataract Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 30,000 per eye Treatment of Total Knee Replacement Up to Rs. 70,000 per knee Up to Rs. 80,000 per knee Up to Rs. 80,000 per knee Up to Rs. 1,00,000 per knee Treatment for each & every Ailment/ Up to Rs. 35,000 Up to Rs. 50,000 Up to Rs. 55,000 Up to Rs. 65,000 Procedure mentioned below:- i. Surgery for treatment of all types of Hernia ii. Hysterectomy iii. Surgeries for Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH) iv. Surgical treatment of stones of renal system Treatment for each & every Ailment/ Up to Rs. 1,50,000 Up to Rs. 2,00,000 Up to Rs. 2,25,000 Up to Rs. 2,50,000 Procedure mentioned below:- i. Treatment of Cerebrovascular and Cardiovascular disorders ii. Treatments/Surgeries for Cancer iii. Treatment of other renal complications and Disorders iv. Treatment for breakage of bones CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 14 Plan Name Care Freedom - Plan 2 Sum Insured on 2L 3L 4L 5L 7L/10L annual basis (in Rs.) Deductible on No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / No deductible /25K / 50K / annual basis (in Rs.) 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L 1L/2L/3L Hospitalization Expenses In-Patient Care Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Up to Sum Insured Day Care Treatment Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Up to SI (As per Annexure - I) Up to SI (As per Annexure I) Up to SI (As per Annexure I) Up to SI (As per Annexure I) Consumable Allowance Rs. 500 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 750 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 750 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 1000 per day; Max. 7 days Rs. 1000 per day; Max. 7 days per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered per Hospitalization covered after 3 days after 3 days after 3 days after 3 days after 3 days Companion Benefit Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 10,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 15,000 if Hospitalization Rs. 15,000 if Hospitalization exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days exceeds 10 days Pre-hospitalization Up to 7.5% of payable Up to 7.5% of payable Up to 7.5% of payable Up to 10% of payable Up to 10% of payable Medical Expenses and Hospitalization expenses Hospitalization expenses Hospitalization expenses Hospitalization expenses Hospitalization expenses Post-hospitalization valid till 30 days beyond valid till 30 days beyond valid till 30 days beyond valid till 30 days beyond valid till 30 days beyond Medical Expenses the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. the Policy End Date. Ambulance Cover Up to Rs 1,000 per Up to Rs 1,000 per Up to Rs 1,000 per Up to Rs 1,000 per Up to Rs 1,000 per Hospitalization Hospitalization Hospitalization Hospitalization Hospitalization Domiciliary Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Up to 10% of Sum Insured Hospitalization covered after 3 days covered after 3 days covered after 3 days covered after 3 days covered after 3 days Recharge of SI N.A. 100% of original SI upon 100% of original SI upon 100% of original SI upon 100% of original SI upon exhaustion of SI exhaustion of SI exhaustion of SI exhaustion of SI Dialysis Cover Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Up to Rs. 1,000 per sitting; Limited to 24 consecutive Limited to 24 consecutive Limited to 24 consecutive Limited to 24 consecutive Limited to 24 consecutive months months months months months Annual Health Check-up Annually Annually Annually Annually Annually CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 15 Wait Periods Initial Wait Period 30 Days 30 Days 30 Days 30 Days 30 Days Named ailments 24 months 24 months 24 months 24 months 24 months Pre-existing Diseases 24 months 24 months 24 months 24 months 24 months Sub-limits Room Rent/ Twin Sharing Room subject to Twin Sharing Room subject to Twin Sharing Room subject to Twin Sharing Room Single Private Room Room Category a maximum of 1% of SI per day a maximum of 1% of SI per day a maximum of 1% of SI per day ICU Charges Up to 2% of SI per day Up to 2% of SI per day Up to 2% of SI per day No limit No limit Co-payment 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim 20% / 30% per claim Above 70 years of age: Above 70 years of age: Above 70 years of age: Above 70 years of age: Above 70 years of age: increase in co-payment increase in co-payment increase in co-payment increase in co-payment increase in co-payment by 10% per claim by 10% per claim by 10% per claim by 10% per claim by 10% per claim (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory (optional, though mandatory for first time entrants) for first time entrants) for first time entrants) for first time entrants) for first time entrants) Treatment of Cataract Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 20,000 per eye Up to Rs. 30,000 per eye Up to Rs. 30,000 per eye Treatment of Total Up to Rs. 70,000 per knee Up to Rs. 80,000 per knee Up to Rs. 80,000 per knee Up to Rs. 1,00,000 per knee Up to Rs. 1,20,000 per knee Knee Replacement Treatment for each & Up to Rs. 35,000 Up to Rs. 50,000 Up to Rs. 55,000 Up to Rs. 65,000 Up to Rs. 80,000 every Ailment/Procedure mentioned below:- i. Surgery for treatment of all types of Hernia ii. Hysterectomy iii. Surgeries for Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH) iv. Surgical treatment of stones of renal system Treatment for each & Up to Rs. 1,50,000 Up to Rs. 2,00,000 Up to Rs. 2,25,000 Up to Rs. 2,50,000 Up to Rs. 3,00,000 every Ailment/Procedure mentioned below:- I. Treatment of Cerebrovascular and Cardiovascular disorders ii. Treatments/Surgeries for Cancer iii. Treatment of other renal complications & Disorders Treatment for breakage of bones CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 16 Optional Cover 1 : Good Health+ I. Up to 8 consultations at Network Service Providers with per i. OPD Consultation Benefit consultation limit of Rs. 300 / 600 1,000. ii. Discounts in pharmacy ii. Within Network Service Providers iii. Discounts in wellness centres iii. Within Network Service Providers Optional Cover 2 : Home Care Up to Rs. 1,000 per day; Max. 7 days per Any One Illness/Injury & Max. 45 days per Policy Year covered after a Deductible of 1 day Optional Cover 3 Health Check+ 'Benefit 9 - Annual Health Check-Up' upgraded to either Diabetes Health Check - Up or Cardiac Health Check - Up Note: Coverage under Optional Cover is over and above the Sum Insured. About Us Care Health Insurance is a specialized health insurer offering products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services. With its operating philosophy being based on the principal tenet of 'consumer-centricity', the company has consistently invested in the effective application of technology to deliver excellence in customer servicing, product innovation and value-for-money services. Care Health Insurance was awarded 'Smart Insurer of the Year' and 'Sales Champion of the Year' at The Economic Times Insurance Summit & Awards 2022. The company was also conferred the 'Best Health Insurance Product' and 'Best Health Insurance Agents' at the Insurance Alertss Awards, 2021, and was adjudged 'Best Medical/Health Insurance Product Award' at FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019. Registered Office: Care Health Insurance Limited 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 Correspondence address Vipul Tech Square, Tower C, 3rd Floor, Golf Course Road, Sector-43, Gurugram-122009 Tollfree (WhatsApp Number) 8860402452 E-mail ID for Claims claims@careinsurance.com Submit Your Queries/Requests: https://www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html Website www.careinsurance.com Disclaimer: This is only a summary of product care freedom. For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Please seek the advice of your insurance advisor if you require any further information or clarification. Statutory Warning: Prohibition of Rebates (under Section 41 of Insurance Act, 1938): No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a Policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectus or tables of the insurer. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten lakh rupees. Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. UAN:23045675 UIN:RHIHLIP21519V022021 CIN:U66000DL2007PLC161503 IRDAI Registration Number - 148 Note: 1. The foregoing is only an indication of the cover offered. For details, please refer to the Policy terms and conditions, available on request. 2. The Proposal Form shall form the basis of the insurance contract. It is mandatory for You to provide Us a duly filled in and signed Proposal Form and retain a copy as an evidence of the basis of the insurance contract. 3. Any risk under the Policy shall commence only once We receives the premium (including all taxes and levies thereto). 4. In case You have not understood any of the details, coverage, etc. in this document, You can seek for a clarification or a copy of this document in a language understood by You. 5. For full details of this product, please log on to www.careinsurance.com 6. The product is in conformity with the IRDAI approval and health insurance regulations and standardization guidelines. CARE FREEDOM UIN: RHIHLIP21519V022021 17 