"care HEALTH BEST HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY OF THE YEAR INSURANCE INDIA INSURANCE SUMMIT & AWARDS 2023 PRESENTING care supreme Redefining the value that you get from your Health Insurance []] % o Up to Unlimited Earn up to Up to Unlimited 600% Automatic 30% 100% E-consultation Increase in Total Recharge for Discount of Sum Insured with General Coverage* Related & Unrelated on Renewal* on Ambulance Physician^ Illnesses Cover** Up to 60 days pre hospitalization and 180 days post hospitalization coverage Pay the premium as per the city you live in AYUSH treatment coverage up to 100% of Sum Insured Coverage for treatment expenses at home up to 100% of Sum Insured under - Domiciliary Hospitalization Advance technology methods covered up to 100% of Sum insured No reduction in Cumulative Bonus even if you claim *Up to 100% due to Cumulative Bonus and Up to 500% with Cumulative Bonus Super (Optional Cover) for 5 consecutive years. #Through Active days fitness program under Wellness Benefit (Optional Cover). **100% of SI available only for 15 Lakh and above SI on road ambulance, For SI below ₹15 lac - up to 10,000. ^As per the empanelled list of general physician within the company network. Plan Details: Sum Insured (SI) - on annual basis (in Rs.) 5L 7L \ 10L \ 15L Age of Proposer 18 years or above Adult: 18 Years Entry Age - Minimum Child: 90 Days Adult: Lifelong Entry Age - Maximum Child: 24 Years Adult: Lifelong Exit Age Child: 25 Years Cover Type Individual: max up to 6 persons I Floater: max up to 2A2C Tenure Options 1/2/3 Years Pre-policy Issuance Medical Check up Yes, as per Appendix I Pricing Zone 1: Delhi NCR, Mumbai Metropolis Area (including Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad , any other city defined by Government), Gujarat State, Aligarh, Mathura (Delhi NCR includes Delhi, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Bhiwani, Alwar, Bharatpur, Rohtak Sonipat, any other city defined by Government) Zone 2: Rest of India Who are covered Self, spouse/live-in partner/same sex partner, son, (Relationship with respect to the Proposer) daughter, father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in law, grand father, grand mother Premium Payment Term Single Base Benefits: In-Patient Care Up to SI Day Care Treatment All Day Care Procedures Advance Technology Methods Up to SI Room Rent Up to SI ICU Cover Up to SI Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses Up to SI, Pre-Hospitalization expense cover for 60 days prior to hospitalization Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses Up to SI, Post-Hospitalization expense cover for 180 days after discharge AYUSH Treatment Up to SI Domiciliary Hospitalization Up to SI Organ Donor Cover Up to SI For SI below ₹15 lac - up to 10,000 Ambulance Cover For SI ₹15 lac and above - up to SI Cumulative Bonus 50% of SI per year, max up to 100% of SI; Shall not reduce in case of claim Unlimited Automatic Recharge Available for unlimited times for unrelated or same illness. Unlimited E-Consultations Available for Consultations with General Physicians Health Portal- Doctor on chat, Healthy tips reminder, etc. Health Services Discount Connect - Discounts on services such as consultations, diagnostics, maternity etc at our network. Note: Other Sum Insured options are also available. Optional Benefits: Cumulative Bonus Super Up to 100% of SI per year, Max up to 500% of Sum Insured Note: Shall not reduce in case of claim Annual Health Check-up Once for all Insured every policy year Air Ambulance Up to 5 lacs per year a) Recording 10,000 steps or more in a day through tracking apps, devices etc. No. of days in a year Renewal Discount 270 30% 240 20% 180 15% 120 10% Less than 120 0% This benefit will be applicable on Individual basis. In case of floater, average of no. of healthy days as attained by all the Insured shall be considered. Responsibility of mapping device with CHIL system is of the Insured. No. of days completing 10,000 steps or more that are accumulated in last 2 months of the Policy Period would not be considered for discount on renewal Wellness Benefit premium. The same shall carry forward and will be considered in next policy period. In case of multi tenure, average of no. of healthy days over policy tenure will be considered for discount. In case of instalment premium mode is opted, then discount shall be considered only post payment of first 6 month of premium. Vouchers of value equivalent to renewal discount amount can also be provided to Insured in case he/she do not wish for discount on renewal premium. Note: The above section of benefit is available only for Insured covered as Adults aged 18 and above in the Policy and discount calculated shall be applicable on total premium of Policy. b) Access to Digital Fitness Coaching c) Access to Al Fitness Coaching d) Access to Nutritionist/Wellness Coach Note: Benefit (b, C & d) shall be available for Insured members aged above 12 years. Instant Cover For Hypertension or Diabetes or Hyperlipidemia or Asthma post initial wait period of 30 days. Claim Shield Coverage of expense related to 68 Non-payable items during Hospitalization. Modification of PED Wait Period PED wait period will be modified to 1 or 2 or 3 years as opted. Wait Periods: Initial Wait Period 30 Days (not applicable on accident cases) Named Ailment 24 Months Pre-Existing Diseases 48 Months ABOUT US CARE HEALTH INSURANCE LIMITED Care Health Insurance is a specialized health insurer offering products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services. With its operating philosophy being based on the principal tenet of 'consumer-centricity', the company has consistently invested in the effective application of technology to deliver excellence in customer servicing, product innovation and value-for-money services. Care Health Insurance was awarded 'Best Health Insurance Company of the Year' at the India Insurance Summit & Awards 2023, 'Best Health Insurance Product' and 'Best Health Insurance Agents' at the Insurance Alertss Awards, 2021. The company was also conferred the 'Best Medical/Health Insurance Product Award' at FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019. care HEALTH INSURANCE Care Health Insurance Limited Regd. Office: 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 Corresp. Office: Vipul Tech Square, Tower C, 3rd Floor, Golf Course Road, Sector-43, Gurugram-122009 (Haryana) Website: www.careinsurance.com Disclaimer: This is only summary of selective features of product care supreme. For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Please seek the advice of your insurance advisor if you require any further information or clarification. Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. CIN:U66000DL2007PLC161503 UAN:23075831 UIN:CHIHLIP23128V012223 IRDAI Registration Number - 148 REACH US @ Self Help Portal: www.careinsurance.com/self-help-portal.htm Care Health- WhatsApp Customer App 8860402452 Submit Your Queries/Requests: www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html"
