"A Heart Surgery will not stop you from getting a health insurance care heart care 10 YEARS HEALTH INSURANCE Live a Hearty life with care heart care heart reflects our commitment of offering access to Quality Healthcare to individuals who have been suffering from pre-existing cardiac ailments/disorders and undergone a cardiac surgery/proce- dures for the same. And we're here for the long run, SO rest assured of lifelong renewability with us. Salient Features Life-long Renewability Cardiac Health check-up No Claim Bonus Only 2 years wait period for pre-existing ailments Optional Benefits care heart provides the flexibility to choose from any of the follow- ing benefits according to the plan suitable for your needs. ACTIVE HEALTH CHECK-UP* THRICE A YEAR OPD CARE HOME CARE* INTERNATIONAL 2ND OPINION *Optional Cover is available on payment of additional premium. care heart - A Stand Out Product One medical emergency in the family and the entire household is in a state of flux. We understand this and therefore will be there by your side at the time of need. Here's how: I. In-patient Care: In-patient Care: Hospitalization for at least 24 hours - We will pay for the medical expenses, through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility (maximum up to Sum Insured) - from room charges, nursing expenses, ICU charges, surgeon's fee, doctor's fee, anesthesia, blood, oxygen, OT charges and the like. 2. Day Care Treatment: Hospitalization involving less than 24 hours - We will pay through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility for such listed day care treatments, maximum up to Sum Insured. 3. Pre-Hospitalization & Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses: Medical expenses are not just restricted to the hospitalization costs, SO with Care Heart you are covered for pre-hospitalization and post-hospitalization expenses as well. All you need to do is just focus on your treatment and recovery - the insured are covered for 30 days preceding the hospitalization and 60 days after discharge (maximum up to 5% of Sum Insured). 4. Ambulance Cover: Through this cover, we will pay you up-to a specified amount per hospitalization, for expenses that you incur on ambulance service offered by the hospital or any service provider in an emergency situation. 5. Alternative Treatments: Combination of conventional medical and alternative treatments such as Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and homeopathy quicken & aid the process of recovery therefore we will pay up-to specified amount towards alternative treatments for your speedy recovery. 6. Cardiac Health Check-up: On request, CHI will arrange a Cardiac Health Check-up on cashless basis for the set of medical tests specified in the policy as per the Sum Insured at its network provider or any other empanelled providers in India. This benefit shall be available only once during a policy year for each insured covered under the Policy. 7. Automatic Recharge: A refill is always welcome! So your sum insured is reinstated just when you need it the most. If, due to claims made, you ever utilize the maximum limit of Sum Insured and thereby run out of/exhaust your health cover, we reinstate the entire sum insured immediately, once in the policy year. This re-instated amount can be used for future claims which are not in relation to any Illness or Injury for which a Claim has already been admitted for You during that Policy Year. In case of a floater policy, the insured(s) who have not claimed will be eligible to utilize the Recharge amount for any illness or injury pertaining to that Policy Year. 8. No Claims Bonus: Get a flat increase of 10 per cent in sum insured for the next Policy year. No Claims bonus in any case will not exceed 50% of the Sum insured under the policy and in the event there is a claim in a policy year, then the No Claims bonus accrued will be reduced by 10% of the sum insured but in no case shall the Total Sum Insured be less than the Sum insured. It's just our way to tell you that we're there with you in good times and in bad. 9. Domiciliary Hospitalization: Sometime you are not in a condition to be moved to a Hospital or a Hospital room may not be available when you need the medical treatment the most. Under this Benefit, We will pay you up to Sum Insured, for the Medical Expenses incurred during your treatment at home, as long as it involves medical treatment for a period exceeding 3 consecutive days. 'Pre Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses' shall be payable in respect of a claim made under this Benefit. Plan Details: SUM INSURED ₹ 3 Lakh ₹ 5 Lakh ₹ 7 Lakh ₹ 10 Lakh In-Patient Hospitalization Up to Sum Insured Room Rent / Up to 1% of Room Category Sl'per day Single Private Room ICU Charges Up to 2% of No Limit SI per day Day Care Treatment Up to Sum Insured Pre Hospitalization Medical Expenses Pre-Hospitalization for 30 days & and Post Post-Hospitalization for 60 days; Hospitalization Maximum up to 5% of SI Medical Expenses Alternative Treatments Up to 25% of Sum Insured Ambulance Up to Rs 2,000 per Up to Rs 3,000 per Cover Hospitalization Hospitalization Domiciliary Hospitalization Up to 100% of Sum Insured covered after 3 days Automatic Recharge 100% of original Sum Insured upon exhaustion of SI No Claims Bonus 10% increase in SI per Policy Year in case of claim-free year; Max up to 50% of SI (10% decrease in SI per Policy Year in case a claim has been paid; Such decrease is only in SI accrued as NCB) Cardiac Health Check-up Annually Wait Periods Initial Waiting Period 30 Days Specific Waiting 24 Months Period Pre-existing 24 Months Diseases 20% Co-payment if the entry age<=70 years Co-payment 30% Co-payment if the entry age>70 years Pre-policy Issuance None Medical Check up Home Care Up to Rs. 1,000 per day; Max. Up to Rs. 3.2,000 per day; Max. (Optional Cover) 7 days per occurrence & Max. 7 days per occurrence & Max. 45 days per policy year per 45 days per policy year per Insured Person; Covered Insured Person; Covered after a deductible of day after a deductible of | day Eligibility Criteria Entry Age Minimum 18 years Entry Age Maximum No Maximum Age Renewable Life long Cover Type Individual : Maximum 6 persons in a Policy Floater :2 Adults (self and spouse) Tenure 1/2/3 Years Eligibility Criteria Person/either one Person in case of a Floater Policy with 2 Adults, who have been diagnosed with a cardiac ailment/disorder in the past and undergone a Cardiac surgical intervention or procedure for the same Who are Covered Individual: Self, legally married Spouse, Son, (Relationship with Daughter, Father, Mother, Brother, Sister, Respect to the Mother-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Grandmother, Proposer) Grandfather, Grandson, Granddaughter, Uncle, Aunt, Nephew, Niece, Employee or any other relationship having an insurable interest. Notes: - All the Age calculations are as per ""Age Last Birthday"" as on the date of first issue of Policy and / or at the time of Renewal. Option of Mid-term inclusion of a Person in the Policy will be only upon marriage or childbirth; Additional differential premium will be calculated on a pro rata basis. - If Insured persons belonging to the same family are covered on an Individual basis, then every Insured person can opt for different Sum Insured and different Optional Benefits. - Your Eligibility Criteria is Subject to Underwriting Criteria of the Company. Sub-limits SUM INSURED ₹ 3 Lakh ₹ 5 Lakh ₹ 7 Lakh 10 Lakh Treatment of Up to ₹20,000 Cataract Up to ₹30,000 per eye per eye Treatment of Total Knee Up to ₹80,000 Up to ₹1,00,000 Up to ₹1,20,000 per knee Replacement per knee per knee Treatment for each and every Ailment / Procedure mentioned below:- i. Surgery for treatment of all Up to ₹50,000 Upto ₹65,000 Up to ₹80,000 types of Hernia ii. Hysterectomy iii. Surgeries for Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH) iv. Surgical treatment of stones of renal system Treatment for each and every Ailment / Procedure mentioned below:- i. Treatment of Up to Up to Up to ₹300,000 Cerebrovascular ₹200,000 ₹250,000 disorders ii. Treatments/ Surgeries for Cancer iii. Treatment of other renal complications and Disorders iv. Treatment for breakage of bones Other sum insured options are also available. Care Health Insurance Limited Care Health Insurance is a specialized health insurer offering products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services. With its operating philosophy being based on the principal tenet of ""consumer-centricity', the company has consistently invested in the effective application of technology to deliver excellence in customer servicing, product innovation and value-for-money services. Care Health Insurance was awarded 'Smart Insurer of the Year' and ""Sales Champion of the Year' at The Economic Times Insurance Summit & Awards 2022. The company was also conferred the 'Best Health Insurance Product' and 'Best Health Insurance Agents' at the Insurance Alertss Awards, 2021, and was adjudged 'Best Medical/Health Insurance Product Award' at FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019. care 10 YEARS HEALTH INSURANCE Care Health Insurance Limited Registered Office: 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019 Correspondence Office: Vipul Tech Square, Tower C, 3rd Floor, Golf Course Road, Sector-43, Gurugram-122009 (Haryana) Website: www.careinsurance.com Disclaimer: This is only summary of selective features of product care heart . For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure carefully before concluding a sale. Please seek the advice of your insurance advisor if you require any further information or clarification. Insurance is a subject matter of solicitation. CIN:U66000DL2007PLC161503 UAN:23015535 UIN:RHIHLIP21371V022021 IRDAI Registration Number - 148 www.careinsurance.com Quick quote & buy Online renewals Customer support Claim centre REACH US @ Self Help Portal: www.careinsurance.com/self-help-portal.html Care Health- WhatsApp Customer App 8860402452 Submit Your Queries/Requests: www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html"
