Care Health Insurance Limited is a specialized health insurer that offers various products in the retail segment, including health insurance, top-up coverage, personal accident coverage, maternity coverage, international travel insurance, and critical illness coverage. The company also provides group health insurance, microinsurance products for the rural market, and a range of wellness services.
Care Health Insurance is committed to consumer-centricity and uses technology to deliver excellent customer service, product innovation, and value-for-money services. The company has received several accolades, including the "Best Health Insurance Product" and "Best Health Insurance Agents" at the Insurance Alertss Awards 2021, and the "Best Medical/Health Insurance Product Award" at the FICCI Healthcare Excellence Awards 2019.

History
Care Health Insurance (Formerly Religare Health Insurance) has been a subsidiary of Religare Enterprise.[9] It got its IRDAI registration on 26 April 2012 and has been among the five private sector insurers to underwrite policies exclusively in health, personal accident and travel insurance segments.[10]
In 2021, Religare Health Insurance had a claims settlement ratio of 95.2%[11] for the 2021 fiscal year.

Products
Care Health Insurance currently offers products in the retail segment for Health Insurance, Top-up Coverage, Personal Accident, Maternity, International Travel Insurance and Critical Illness along with Group Health Insurance and Group Personal Accident Insurance for Corporates, Micro Insurance Products for the Rural Market and a Comprehensive Set of Wellness Services.[citation needed]

Care Saksham
The Care Saksham health insurance policy provides coverage for hospitalization expenses, pre and post-hospitalization costs, and specific diseases/illnesses. It offers a sum insured of 4 lacs or 5 lacs on an individual basis, with provisions for pre-policy medical check-ups and a grace period for payment. The policy includes details on claim procedures, contact information, and a list of items not covered by the insurance policy. It also provides a comprehensive list of surgical procedures for various medical conditions and a wide range of medical treatments and surgeries

Care Supreme
care HEALTH is the Best Health Insurance Company of the Year at the India Insurance Summit & Awards 2023. Their product, care supreme, offers a range of benefits including unlimited coverage, e-consultations, pre and post-hospitalization coverage, AYUSH treatment coverage, and more. They also provide optional benefits such as cumulative bonus super, annual health check-up, and air ambulance coverage.

Care heart
The "care heart" health insurance product offers lifelong renewability, coverage for pre-existing cardiac ailments, and coverage for expenses related to cardiac surgeries and procedures. It also includes benefits such as in-patient care, day care treatment, pre and post-hospitalization expenses, ambulance cover, alternative treatments, cardiac health check-up, automatic recharge, and a no claims bonus. The product provides coverage for individuals and families, with different sum insured options available.